1. Write the scope and importance of Environmental Study. 
2. Discuss vertical structure of atmosphere and significance of each layer with suitable diagram.
3. Write the structure (components) and function of ecosystem.
4. Differentiate the food chain and food web. Write the types of food chain with example.
5. Define biogeocycle and discuss nitrogen cycle with suitable schematic diagram.
6. What is ecological succession, Discuss the principle of ecological succession with a suitable diagram?
7. What is biodiversity, Discuss various types of biodiversity 
8. What do you understand by hot spot biodiversity? Briefly discuss the hot spot biodiversity of India.
9. Justify India is a mega biodiversity nation in the world. 
10. Define Insitu and Ex-Situ conservation of Biodiversity and give example from each category.
11. What are the types of renewable energy sources and briefly discuss the working principle of solar and tidal energy generation.
12. What is decibel? Write the major noise reduction technique. 
13. What will be the sound power level combining the four sound levels of 56, 68, 71, and 48 dB.
14. Discuss municipal solid waste management technique with a suitable schematic diagram
15. Compute the landfill area requirement for 20 years for a city of population about 6 Lakh. (Assume MSW generation as 500 gm per capita per day; MSW density as 500 kg/m3; Height of dump as 15 m).
16. Discuss the major causes of ozone depletion with suitable chemical reaction.
17. Define sustainable development; discuss various strategies of rainwater harvesting and watershed management.
18. What do you mean by Green House Effect? Write the adverse effect of global warming on human health and environment.
19. Enlist 4 important environmental laws and their objectives. 
20. What is EIA? Discuss the EIA approval process of a newly proposed project with a schematic diagram.
21. Define disaster as per WHO, Explain integrated disaster management with a suitable schematic diagram
22. Discuss major flood management approach in India. 
23. Define disaster as per WHO, and write various causes of floods disaster 
24. Define and Classify cyclone. Discuss major causes and mechanism of cyclone formation
25. Write the recovery and restoration activities for cyclone disaster 
26. Classify earthquake, Discuss the major causes of earthquake. 
27. Write the common preparedness and mitigation measures for Earthquake disaster.
28. Differentiate nuclear fission and fusion, and write the major reason for Chernobyl Accident
29. Explain the major strategies to control fission chain reaction in nuclear reactor, and write the major reason for Chernobyl Accident