Discuss the cycling of nitrogen in the atmosphere using Nitrogen 2Cycle.
Discuss the equitable use óf resources for sustainable lifestyle?
Discuss the use of energy resources. Enlist different measures to be taken for their conservation.
Explain major threats to forest resources.
Describe india is one of the 12 mega biodiversity nations in the 2
Conservation of biodiversity is important for sustainable development. Justify the statement. Describe Biodiversity conservation strategies.
What do you understand by Eutrophication? Write its consequences.
Mention the four names (complete and correct) of Environmental Acts along with their implementation years?
What is the major objective of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)? Draw the flow sheet showing different steps involved to obtain the environmental clearance.
Briefly describe rain water harvesting and watershed management.
Describe the types of air polutants with examples
Systematically enumerate the devices and mechanisms used to control the air pollution and describe the working principle of anyone.
Compute the plate area of an electrostatic precipitator attached to a stack handling a flow of 4200 m/min., if the settling velocity of dust is 0.12 m/s. Take ESP efficiency as 98.5%. 
Describe various adverse efcts of water pollution.
Draw sewage/wastewater treatment flow diagram and describe the role of different unit operations involved.
A 20 ml of raw sewage is diluted with 280 ml of dilution water. The dissolved oxygen concentration of diluted sample at the beginning and after 5 days was 7.5 mg/L and 4.5 mg/L, respectively. Determine the BODs of raw sewage.
Considering the same BODs of sewage as obtained in Question 6(c), what would be the BODs if the test was conducted at 15 °C? The k value at 20 °C is known to be 0.23 d!. 
Briefly explain different noise pollution control measures. 
An industrial fan generates a noise level of 85 dB for 10 min. out of every hour, compute the equivalent continuous level (Leq), if background level is 55 dB.
Describe the classification of solid waste and mention different causes of increasing solid waste generation.
Enumerate the solid waste management strategy. What are different solid waste disposal techniques?
Compute the landfil area requirement for 20 years of a city with population of 10 lakh. (Given: MSW generation = 400 gm per capita per day; MSW density = 450 kg/m'; ignore population growth).
Describe the phenomenon of global warming and mention the name of three major greenhouse gases.
To What do you understand by ozone hole? Describe the consequences of ozone layer depletion.
What do you understand by acid rain? Describe its formation in the atmosphere.
Discuss the role of information technology in environment and human health.
How an effective family welfare program is crucial for India's progress?
Discuss the mitigation measures of flood and cyclone. 2