1.⁠ ⁠List four key features of the Spring Boot framework.
2.⁠ ⁠Describe the purpose of Spring Boot starters. List and explain the Spring Boot starters for web and actuator functionalities.
3.⁠ ⁠Define dependency injection. Provide a code snippet illustrating constructor Injection using @Autowired and @Component annotations in a Spring Boot application.
4.⁠ ⁠Give an example demonstrating the use of the @PreDestroy' and '@PostConstruct annotations.
5.⁠ ⁠Explain lazy initialization with a suitable example. List its benefits.
6.⁠ ⁠Define Spring Boot. What tools are requiried to build an application in spring boot?
7.⁠ ⁠Which annotations are included in @SpringBootApplication?
8.⁠ ⁠How can we create our own auto-configuration class?
9.⁠ ⁠What is @Autowired and explain with example?
10.⁠ ⁠Write an example using @Bean.
11.(a) What is a Spring Boot Starter?Give some examples.
11.(b) How do You Create a Spring Boot Application?
12.⁠ ⁠How do You Connect a Spring Boot Application to a database? Give example with an entity class and repository interface configuring the necessary setting in application.properties file.
13.(a) What is Spring Boot DevTools?
13.(b) What is Spring Boot Autoconfiguration?
14.⁠ ⁠What is the difference between Spring and Spring Boot?
15.⁠ ⁠What is dependency Injection in spring boot?Explain with proper example.
16.⁠ ⁠Discuss bean life cycle in detail.
17.⁠ ⁠What is micro service? Discuss in brief.
18.⁠ ⁠What are the advantages of Spring Boot over Spring?
19.⁠ ⁠Distinguish between constructor and setter based dependency.
20.(a) Discuss the importance of loose coupling.
(b) How are the @RestController and Controller Annotation different?
21.⁠ ⁠What is Spring Boot? Which tools are required to build an application in Spring Boot?
22.⁠ ⁠List out important features of Spring Boot. How to setup a Spring Boot Environment?
23.⁠ ⁠List out features of the 12-factor app. Explain about "Minimal Viable Product" release of a software.
24.⁠ ⁠What is Spring Initialize? How Spring Initialize creates a Maven Spring Boot application skeleton?
25.⁠ ⁠What is meant by microservices? Discuss about the advantageous features of Microservices which breaks the monolithic way of developing software. State some drawbacks of using microservices.
26.⁠ ⁠How does a spring application get started?
27.⁠ ⁠Is it possible to change the port of the embedded Tomcat server in Spring Boot? If yes then how to change it.
28.⁠ ⁠What is the use of the following annotations: @Autowired, @ComponentScan, @Bean
29.⁠ ⁠What is the difference between @RequestMapping and @GetMapping?
30.⁠ ⁠What is an IOC container?